checkout/hosted-checkout/hosted-checkout.mdx, before:

---
title: "Hosted Checkout"
description: "Accept payments by redirecting customers to the ClickPesa Hosted Checkout"
---

- Quick and Ease Integration - Simply generate a hosted checkout link, share with a customer and start accepting payments instantly.
- Hassle-Free Integration - Security and updates are fully managed by ClickPesa, allowing you to focus on your business.

## How It Works

1. [Create a Hosted Application](/application/embedded-application-setup) -
   Create an application and generate **Client ID** and **API Keys** for Hosted Checkout.

2. [Generate Authorization Token](/api-reference/authorization/generate-token) -
Use **API Keys** to generate an Authorization Token.

3. **Generate Hosted Checkout Link**
   - [Checkout Link API](/checkout/hosted-checkout/checkout-link-api) - Use API to generate a hosted checkout link.
   - [Checkout Link Widget](/checkout/hosted-checkout/checkout-link-widget) - Use Embedded Widget to generate a checkout link.


4. **Redirect Customers**  - Add the generated checkout link into your checkout flow to seamlessly redirect customers to ClickPesa’s Hosted Checkout.

Commit message:

👋 REMOVE: delete outdated BillPay and snippet introduction documentation; update styles and enhance Payment API descriptions

checkout/hosted-checkout/hosted-checkout.mdx, after:

---
title: "Hosted Checkout"
description: "Accept payments by redirecting customers to the ClickPesa Hosted Checkout"
---

- Quick and Ease Integration - Simply generate a hosted checkout link, share with a customer and start accepting payments instantly.
- Hassle-Free Integration - Security and updates are fully managed by ClickPesa, allowing you to focus on your business.

## How It Works

1. [Create a Hosted Application](/application/hosted-application-setup) -
   Create an application and generate **Client ID** and **API Keys** for Hosted Checkout

2. [Generate Authorization Token](/api-reference/authorization/generate-token) -
Use **API Keys** to generate an Authorization Token

3. **Generate Hosted Checkout Link** -
 Use [Checkout Link API](/checkout/hosted-checkout/checkout-link-api) to generate a hosted checkout link

4. **Redirect Customers**  - Add the generated checkout link into your checkout flow to seamlessly redirect customers to ClickPesa’s Hosted Checkout

5. **Recieve Payment Confirmation**  - Receive real-time payment status update via [Webhook](/home/webhooks) or poll the transaction status via [Query Payment API](/api-reference/collection/querying-for-payments/querying-for-payments)
