home/checksum.mdx, before:

---
title: "Checksum"
description: "Generate checksums for secure transactions"
icon: "lock"
---

 The checksum ensures data integrity and consistency when verifying API requests.

## **Generating Payload Checksum**
1. **Sort Payload Keys** - The keys of the payload are sorted alphabetically to maintain consistency.
2. **Concatenate Sorted Values** - The values of the sorted object are concatenated into a single string.
3. **Generate HMAC-SHA256 Hash** - The concatenated string is hashed using HMAC-SHA256 with the provided secret key.
4. **Return the Hex Digest** - The resulting hash is returned in hexadecimal format.


<Note>
  - The order of values matters, so **sorting** is crucial to maintain consistency.
  - The function assumes all values are **strings**; if they contain complex types, they should be serialized properly before hashing.
</Note>


### **Generation Examples**

<CodeGroup>

```javascript Javascript
const crypto = require("crypto");

const createPayloadChecksum = (checksumKey, payload) => {
  const sortedPayload = Object.keys(payload)
    .sort()
    .reduce((obj, key) => {
      obj[key] = payload[key];
      return obj;
    }, {});
  const payloadString = Object.values(sortedPayload).join("");
  const hmac = crypto.createHmac("sha256", checksumKey);
  hmac.update(payloadString);
  return hmac.digest("hex");
};

// Example usage:
const payload = { amount: 100, currency: "USD", reference: "TX123" };
const checksumKey = "secret-key";
console.log(createPayloadChecksum(checksumKey, payload));
```

```python Python
import hashlib
import hmac

def create_payload_checksum(checksum_key, payload):
    sorted_payload = {k: payload[k] for k in sorted(payload)}
    payload_string = "".join(str(value) for value in sorted_payload.values())
    return hmac.new(checksum_key.encode(), payload_string.encode(), hashlib.sha256).hexdigest()

# Example usage:
payload = {"amount": 100, "currency": "USD", "reference": "TX123"}
checksum_key = "secret-key"
print(create_payload_checksum(checksum_key, payload))
```
```php PHP
<?php
function createPayloadChecksum($checksumKey, $payload) {
    ksort($payload); // Sort array by key
    $payloadString = implode("", array_values($payload));
    return hash_hmac("sha256", $payloadString, $checksumKey);
}

// Example usage:
$payload = ["amount" => 100, "currency" => "USD", "reference" => "TX123"];
$checksumKey = "secret-key";
echo createPayloadChecksum($checksumKey, $payload);
?>
```
```go Go
package main

import (
	"crypto/hmac"
	"crypto/sha256"
	"encoding/hex"
	"fmt"
	"sort"
)

func createPayloadChecksum(checksumKey string, payload map[string]string) string {
	keys := make([]string, 0, len(payload))
	for k := range payload {
		keys = append(keys, k)
	}
	sort.Strings(keys)

	payloadString := ""
	for _, k := range keys {
		payloadString += payload[k]
	}

	h := hmac.New(sha256.New, []byte(checksumKey))
	h.Write([]byte(payloadString))
	return hex.EncodeToString(h.Sum(nil))
}

// Example usage:
func main() {
	payload := map[string]string{"amount": "100", "currency": "USD", "reference": "TX123"}
	checksumKey := "secret-key"
	fmt.Println(createPayloadChecksum(checksumKey, payload))
}
```

```java Java
import java.util.*;
import javax.crypto.Mac;
import javax.crypto.spec.SecretKeySpec;
import java.nio.charset.StandardCharsets;
import java.security.NoSuchAlgorithmException;
import java.security.InvalidKeyException;

public class CreatePayloadChecksum {
    public static String createPayloadChecksum(String checksumKey, Map<String, String> payload) throws NoSuchAlgorithmException, InvalidKeyException {
        List<String> keys = new ArrayList<>(payload.keySet());
        Collections.sort(keys);

        StringBuilder payloadString = new StringBuilder();
        for (String key : keys) {
            payloadString.append(payload.get(key));
        }

        Mac sha256_HMAC = Mac.getInstance("HmacSHA256");
        SecretKeySpec secret_key = new SecretKeySpec(checksumKey.getBytes(StandardCharsets.UTF_8), "HmacSHA256");
        sha256_HMAC.init(secret_key);

        byte[] hash = sha256_HMAC.doFinal(payloadString.toString().getBytes(StandardCharsets.UTF_8));
        StringBuilder hexString = new StringBuilder();
        for (byte b : hash) {
            hexString.append(String.format("%02x", b));
        }
        return hexString.toString();
    }

    // Example usage:
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        try {
            Map<String, String> payload = new HashMap<>();
            payload.put("amount", "100");
            payload.put("currency", "USD");
            payload.put("reference", "TX123");

            String checksumKey = "secret-key";
            System.out.println(createPayloadChecksum(checksumKey, payload));
        } catch (Exception e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
}
```
</CodeGroup>


## Validating Payload Checksum

1. **Extract Checksum**  - Extract the checksum from the received request.

2. **Recompute Checksum** - Using the same `createPayloadChecksum` function, recompute the checksum from the received payload using the checksum key.

3. **Compare the Computed and Received Checksum**
   - If both checksums match, the payload is valid and untampered.
   - If they do not match, reject the request as it may have been modified.

### **Validation Examples**

<CodeGroup>

```javascript Javascript
const crypto = require("crypto");

const createPayloadChecksum = (checksumKey, payload) => {
  const sortedPayload = Object.keys(payload)
    .sort()
    .reduce((obj, key) => {
      obj[key] = payload[key];
      return obj;
    }, {});
  const payloadString = Object.values(sortedPayload).join("");
  const hmac = crypto.createHmac("sha256", checksumKey);
  hmac.update(payloadString);
  return hmac.digest("hex");
};

const validateChecksum = (checksumKey, payload, receivedChecksum) => {
  const computedChecksum = createPayloadChecksum(checksumKey, payload);
  return computedChecksum === receivedChecksum;
};

// Example usage:
const payload = { amount: 100, currency: "USD", reference: "TX123" };
const checksumKey = "secret-key";
const receivedChecksum = "some-checksum-from-request"; // Replace with actual received checksum

console.log(validateChecksum(checksumKey, payload, receivedChecksum) ? "Valid" : "Invalid");
```

```python Python
import hashlib
import hmac

def create_payload_checksum(checksum_key, payload):
    sorted_payload = {k: payload[k] for k in sorted(payload)}
    payload_string = "".join(str(value) for value in sorted_payload.values())
    return hmac.new(checksum_key.encode(), payload_string.encode(), hashlib.sha256).hexdigest()

def validate_checksum(checksum_key, payload, received_checksum):
    computed_checksum = create_payload_checksum
```
```php PHP
<?php
function createPayloadChecksum($checksumKey, $payload) {
    ksort($payload); // Sort array by key
    $payloadString = implode("", array_values($payload));
    return hash_hmac("sha256", $payloadString, $checksumKey);
}

function validateChecksum($checksumKey, $payload, $receivedChecksum) {
    $computedChecksum = createPayloadChecksum($checksumKey, $payload);
    return hash_equals($computedChecksum, $receivedChecksum); // Prevent timing attacks
}

// Example usage:
$payload = ["amount" => 100, "currency" => "USD", "reference" => "TX123"];
$checksumKey = "secret-key";
$receivedChecksum = "some-checksum-from-request"; // Replace with actual received checksum

if (validateChecksum($checksumKey, $payload, $receivedChecksum)) {
    echo "Valid Checksum";
} else {
    echo "Invalid Checksum";
}
?>
```

```go Go
package main

import (
	"crypto/hmac"
	"crypto/sha256"
	"encoding/hex"
	"fmt"
	"sort"
)

func createPayloadChecksum(checksumKey string, payload map[string]string) string {
	keys := make([]string, 0, len(payload))
	for k := range payload {
		keys = append(keys, k)
	}
	sort.Strings(keys)

	payloadString := ""
	for _, k := range keys {
		payloadString += payload[k]
	}

	h := hmac.New(sha256.New, []byte(checksumKey))
	h.Write([]byte(payloadString))
	return hex.EncodeToString(h.Sum(nil))
}

func validateChecksum(checksumKey string, payload map[string]string, receivedChecksum string) bool {
	computedChecksum := createPayloadChecksum(checksumKey, payload)
	return computedChecksum == receivedChecksum
}

// Example usage:
func main() {
	payload := map[string]string{"amount": "100", "currency": "USD", "reference": "TX123"}
	checksumKey := "secret-key"
	receivedChecksum := "some-checksum-from-request" // Replace with actual received checksum

	if validateChecksum(checksumKey, payload, receivedChecksum) {
		fmt.Println("Valid Checksum")
	} else {
		fmt.Println("Invalid Checksum")
	}
}
```

```java Java
import java.util.*;
import javax.crypto.Mac;
import javax.crypto.spec.SecretKeySpec;
import java.nio.charset.StandardCharsets;
import java.security.NoSuchAlgorithmException;
import java.security.InvalidKeyException;

public class ValidatePayloadChecksum {
    public static String createPayloadChecksum(String checksumKey, Map<String, String> payload) throws NoSuchAlgorithmException, InvalidKeyException {
        List<String> keys = new ArrayList<>(payload.keySet());
        Collections.sort(keys);

        StringBuilder payloadString = new StringBuilder();
        for (String key : keys) {
            payloadString.append(payload.get(key));
        }

        Mac sha256_HMAC = Mac.getInstance("HmacSHA256");
        SecretKeySpec secret_key = new SecretKeySpec(checksumKey.getBytes(StandardCharsets.UTF_8), "HmacSHA256");
        sha256_HMAC.init(secret_key);

        byte[] hash = sha256_HMAC.doFinal(payloadString.toString().getBytes(StandardCharsets.UTF_8));
        StringBuilder hexString = new StringBuilder();
        for (byte b : hash) {
            hexString.append(String.format("%02x", b));
        }
        return hexString.toString();
    }

    public static boolean validateChecksum(String checksumKey, Map<String, String> payload, String receivedChecksum) throws NoSuchAlgorithmException, InvalidKeyException {
        String computedChecksum = createPayloadChecksum(checksumKey, payload);
        return computedChecksum.equals(receivedChecksum);
    }

    // Example usage:
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        try {
            Map<String, String> payload = new HashMap<>();
            payload.put("amount", "100");
            payload.put("currency", "USD");
            payload.put("reference", "TX123");

            String checksumKey = "secret-key";
            String receivedChecksum = "some-checksum-from-request"; // Replace with actual received checksum

            if (validateChecksum(checksumKey, payload, receivedChecksum)) {
                System.out.println("Valid Checksum");
            } else {
                System.out.println("Invalid Checksum");
            }
        } catch (Exception e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
}
```
</CodeGroup>

Commit message:

👋 REMOVE: delete outdated BillPay and snippet introduction documentation; update styles and enhance Payment API descriptions

home/checksum.mdx, after:

---
title: "Checksum"
description: "Generate checksum for secure transactions via API"
icon: "lock"
---

The payloads checksum ensures data integrity and consistency during API requests.

On incoming requests it ensures that the payment or payout request is from a valid merchant and that no one has tampered with it.

[Webhooks](/home/webhooks) payload are also signed using the same method as defined below. This allows merchants to ensure that the webhook request came from ClickPesa and that no one has tampered with it.

## **Generating Payload Checksum**
1. **Sort Payload Keys** - The keys of the payload are sorted alphabetically to maintain consistency.
2. **Concatenate Sorted Values** - The values of the sorted object are concatenated into a single string.
3. **Generate HMAC-SHA256 Hash** - The concatenated string is hashed using HMAC-SHA256 with the provided secret key.
4. **Return the Hex Digest** - The resulting hash is returned in hexadecimal format.


<Note>
  - The order of values matters, so **sorting** is crucial to maintain consistency.
  - The function assumes all values are **strings**; if they contain complex types, they should be serialized properly before hashing.
</Note>


### **Examples**

<CodeGroup>

```javascript Javascript
const crypto = require("crypto");

const createPayloadChecksum = (checksumKey, payload) => {
  const sortedPayload = Object.keys(payload)
    .sort()
    .reduce((obj, key) => {
      obj[key] = payload[key];
      return obj;
    }, {});
  const payloadString = Object.values(sortedPayload).join("");
  const hmac = crypto.createHmac("sha256", checksumKey);
  hmac.update(payloadString);
  return hmac.digest("hex");
};

// Example usage:
const payload = { amount: 100, currency: "USD", reference: "TX123" };
const checksumKey = "secret-key";
console.log(createPayloadChecksum(checksumKey, payload));
```

```python Python
import hashlib
import hmac

def create_payload_checksum(checksum_key, payload):
    sorted_payload = {k: payload[k] for k in sorted(payload)}
    payload_string = "".join(str(value) for value in sorted_payload.values())
    return hmac.new(checksum_key.encode(), payload_string.encode(), hashlib.sha256).hexdigest()

# Example usage:
payload = {"amount": 100, "currency": "USD", "reference": "TX123"}
checksum_key = "secret-key"
print(create_payload_checksum(checksum_key, payload))
```
```php PHP
<?php
function createPayloadChecksum($checksumKey, $payload) {
    ksort($payload); // Sort array by key
    $payloadString = implode("", array_values($payload));
    return hash_hmac("sha256", $payloadString, $checksumKey);
}

// Example usage:
$payload = ["amount" => 100, "currency" => "USD", "reference" => "TX123"];
$checksumKey = "secret-key";
echo createPayloadChecksum($checksumKey, $payload);
?>
```
```go Go
package main

import (
	"crypto/hmac"
	"crypto/sha256"
	"encoding/hex"
	"fmt"
	"sort"
)

func createPayloadChecksum(checksumKey string, payload map[string]string) string {
	keys := make([]string, 0, len(payload))
	for k := range payload {
		keys = append(keys, k)
	}
	sort.Strings(keys)

	payloadString := ""
	for _, k := range keys {
		payloadString += payload[k]
	}

	h := hmac.New(sha256.New, []byte(checksumKey))
	h.Write([]byte(payloadString))
	return hex.EncodeToString(h.Sum(nil))
}

// Example usage:
func main() {
	payload := map[string]string{"amount": "100", "currency": "USD", "reference": "TX123"}
	checksumKey := "secret-key"
	fmt.Println(createPayloadChecksum(checksumKey, payload))
}
```

```java Java
import java.util.*;
import javax.crypto.Mac;
import javax.crypto.spec.SecretKeySpec;
import java.nio.charset.StandardCharsets;
import java.security.NoSuchAlgorithmException;
import java.security.InvalidKeyException;

public class CreatePayloadChecksum {
    public static String createPayloadChecksum(String checksumKey, Map<String, String> payload) throws NoSuchAlgorithmException, InvalidKeyException {
        List<String> keys = new ArrayList<>(payload.keySet());
        Collections.sort(keys);

        StringBuilder payloadString = new StringBuilder();
        for (String key : keys) {
            payloadString.append(payload.get(key));
        }

        Mac sha256_HMAC = Mac.getInstance("HmacSHA256");
        SecretKeySpec secret_key = new SecretKeySpec(checksumKey.getBytes(StandardCharsets.UTF_8), "HmacSHA256");
        sha256_HMAC.init(secret_key);

        byte[] hash = sha256_HMAC.doFinal(payloadString.toString().getBytes(StandardCharsets.UTF_8));
        StringBuilder hexString = new StringBuilder();
        for (byte b : hash) {
            hexString.append(String.format("%02x", b));
        }
        return hexString.toString();
    }

    // Example usage:
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        try {
            Map<String, String> payload = new HashMap<>();
            payload.put("amount", "100");
            payload.put("currency", "USD");
            payload.put("reference", "TX123");

            String checksumKey = "secret-key";
            System.out.println(createPayloadChecksum(checksumKey, payload));
        } catch (Exception e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
}
```
</CodeGroup>


## Validating Payload Checksum

1. **Extract Checksum**  - Extract the checksum from the received request.

2. **Recompute Checksum** - Using the same `createPayloadChecksum` function, recompute the checksum from the received payload using the checksum key.

3. **Compare the Computed and Received Checksum**
   - If both checksums match, the payload is valid and untampered.
   - If they do not match, reject the request as it may have been modified.

### **Examples**

<CodeGroup>

```javascript Javascript
const crypto = require("crypto");

const createPayloadChecksum = (checksumKey, payload) => {
  const sortedPayload = Object.keys(payload)
    .sort()
    .reduce((obj, key) => {
      obj[key] = payload[key];
      return obj;
    }, {});
  const payloadString = Object.values(sortedPayload).join("");
  const hmac = crypto.createHmac("sha256", checksumKey);
  hmac.update(payloadString);
  return hmac.digest("hex");
};

const validateChecksum = (checksumKey, payload, receivedChecksum) => {
  const computedChecksum = createPayloadChecksum(checksumKey, payload);
  return computedChecksum === receivedChecksum;
};

// Example usage:
const payload = { amount: 100, currency: "USD", reference: "TX123" };
const checksumKey = "secret-key";
const receivedChecksum = "some-checksum-from-request"; // Replace with actual received checksum

console.log(validateChecksum(checksumKey, payload, receivedChecksum) ? "Valid" : "Invalid");
```

```python Python
import hashlib
import hmac

def create_payload_checksum(checksum_key, payload):
    sorted_payload = {k: payload[k] for k in sorted(payload)}
    payload_string = "".join(str(value) for value in sorted_payload.values())
    return hmac.new(checksum_key.encode(), payload_string.encode(), hashlib.sha256).hexdigest()

def validate_checksum(checksum_key, payload, received_checksum):
    computed_checksum = create_payload_checksum
```
```php PHP
<?php
function createPayloadChecksum($checksumKey, $payload) {
    ksort($payload); // Sort array by key
    $payloadString = implode("", array_values($payload));
    return hash_hmac("sha256", $payloadString, $checksumKey);
}

function validateChecksum($checksumKey, $payload, $receivedChecksum) {
    $computedChecksum = createPayloadChecksum($checksumKey, $payload);
    return hash_equals($computedChecksum, $receivedChecksum); // Prevent timing attacks
}

// Example usage:
$payload = ["amount" => 100, "currency" => "USD", "reference" => "TX123"];
$checksumKey = "secret-key";
$receivedChecksum = "some-checksum-from-request"; // Replace with actual received checksum

if (validateChecksum($checksumKey, $payload, $receivedChecksum)) {
    echo "Valid Checksum";
} else {
    echo "Invalid Checksum";
}
?>
```

```go Go
package main

import (
	"crypto/hmac"
	"crypto/sha256"
	"encoding/hex"
	"fmt"
	"sort"
)

func createPayloadChecksum(checksumKey string, payload map[string]string) string {
	keys := make([]string, 0, len(payload))
	for k := range payload {
		keys = append(keys, k)
	}
	sort.Strings(keys)

	payloadString := ""
	for _, k := range keys {
		payloadString += payload[k]
	}

	h := hmac.New(sha256.New, []byte(checksumKey))
	h.Write([]byte(payloadString))
	return hex.EncodeToString(h.Sum(nil))
}

func validateChecksum(checksumKey string, payload map[string]string, receivedChecksum string) bool {
	computedChecksum := createPayloadChecksum(checksumKey, payload)
	return computedChecksum == receivedChecksum
}

// Example usage:
func main() {
	payload := map[string]string{"amount": "100", "currency": "USD", "reference": "TX123"}
	checksumKey := "secret-key"
	receivedChecksum := "some-checksum-from-request" // Replace with actual received checksum

	if validateChecksum(checksumKey, payload, receivedChecksum) {
		fmt.Println("Valid Checksum")
	} else {
		fmt.Println("Invalid Checksum")
	}
}
```

```java Java
import java.util.*;
import javax.crypto.Mac;
import javax.crypto.spec.SecretKeySpec;
import java.nio.charset.StandardCharsets;
import java.security.NoSuchAlgorithmException;
import java.security.InvalidKeyException;

public class ValidatePayloadChecksum {
    public static String createPayloadChecksum(String checksumKey, Map<String, String> payload) throws NoSuchAlgorithmException, InvalidKeyException {
        List<String> keys = new ArrayList<>(payload.keySet());
        Collections.sort(keys);

        StringBuilder payloadString = new StringBuilder();
        for (String key : keys) {
            payloadString.append(payload.get(key));
        }

        Mac sha256_HMAC = Mac.getInstance("HmacSHA256");
        SecretKeySpec secret_key = new SecretKeySpec(checksumKey.getBytes(StandardCharsets.UTF_8), "HmacSHA256");
        sha256_HMAC.init(secret_key);

        byte[] hash = sha256_HMAC.doFinal(payloadString.toString().getBytes(StandardCharsets.UTF_8));
        StringBuilder hexString = new StringBuilder();
        for (byte b : hash) {
            hexString.append(String.format("%02x", b));
        }
        return hexString.toString();
    }

    public static boolean validateChecksum(String checksumKey, Map<String, String> payload, String receivedChecksum) throws NoSuchAlgorithmException, InvalidKeyException {
        String computedChecksum = createPayloadChecksum(checksumKey, payload);
        return computedChecksum.equals(receivedChecksum);
    }

    // Example usage:
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        try {
            Map<String, String> payload = new HashMap<>();
            payload.put("amount", "100");
            payload.put("currency", "USD");
            payload.put("reference", "TX123");

            String checksumKey = "secret-key";
            String receivedChecksum = "some-checksum-from-request"; // Replace with actual received checksum

            if (validateChecksum(checksumKey, payload, receivedChecksum)) {
                System.out.println("Valid Checksum");
            } else {
                System.out.println("Invalid Checksum");
            }
        } catch (Exception e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
}
```
</CodeGroup>
