home/introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: "Quickstart"
description: "ClickPesa makes accepting and disbursing payments easy, whether you know how to code or not - ClickPesa has the right solution for you."
icon: "rocket"
---

<CardGroup  cols={2} >

<Card
  title="ClickPesa Checkout"
  icon="cart-shopping"
  href="/checkout/checkout-overview"
>
A ready-to-use payment solution supporting multiple methods with a single integration. Embed it on your site or redirect to ClickPesa Hosted Checkout.
</Card>

<Card
title="ClickPesa Dashboard"
 icon="browser"
 href="/checkout/checkout-overview">
Manage and grow your business using insights and analytics, initiate bulk payouts, generate payment pages and invoices, retrieve API credentials, and more.
</Card>

<Card
  title="ClickPesa Payout Widgets"
  icon="browsers"
  href="/payout-widgets/payout-widgets-overview"
>
Ready-to-use UI widgets that let you send funds from your ClickPesa account to any mobile money wallet or bank account in Tanzania—directly from your web application.
</Card>

<Card
  title="Payment Pages"
  icon="file-invoice"
  href="/essentials/images"
>
Create secure payment pages to sell products or collect payment for your services online, without a website or webshop. Send page link to customers using email, SMS or WhatsApp.
</Card>

<Card
  title="E-Invoice"
  icon="file-invoice-dollar"
  href="/essentials/reusable-snippets"
>
 Generate professional invoices for your customers and get paid from anywhere.
</Card>


<Card
  title="ClickPesa BillPay"
  icon="ballot-check"
  href="/essentials/reusable-snippets"
>
  Streamline your billing process by creating unique control numbers for receiving payments via Mobile Money, Simbanking, and Wakalas.
</Card>

<Card
  title="ClickPesa LipaNamba"
  icon="store"
  href="/essentials/reusable-snippets"
>
  ClickPesa LipaNamba enables you to easily accept mobile money payments directly at your store by providing a unique LipaNamba to your customers.
</Card>

<Card
  title="ClickPesa LipaQR"
  icon="qrcode"
  href="/essentials/reusable-snippets"
>
  ClickPesa LipaQR allows you to accept payments via QR codes, providing your customers with a seamless and contactless payment experience.
</Card>


<Card
  title="ClickPesa Payment API"
  icon="brackets-curly"
  href="/essentials/reusable-snippets"
>
Payment API enables seamless integration with ClickPesa, allowing you to receive instant payments via Mobile Money and Cards.
</Card>

<Card
  title="ClickPesa Disbursement API"
  icon="brackets-curly"
  href="/essentials/reusable-snippets"
>
Simplify your bulk payout processes to Mobile Money and Bank Accounts. Includes beneficiary bank account verification and mobile money number name checks.
</Card>


<Card
  title="Plugins and SDK"
  icon="puzzle-piece"
  href="/essentials/reusable-snippets"
>
 Acceptance payments from Shopify, Wix, and WooCommerce, and use our SDKs for Android, iOS, and Web to develop native apps with in-app payments.
</Card>

</CardGroup>

Commit message:

👌 ADD: create new documentation files for various features including E-Invoice, LipaQR, BillPay, Payment Page, and more

home/introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: "Quickstart"
description: "ClickPesa makes accepting and disbursing payments easy, whether you know how to code or not - ClickPesa has the right solution for you."
icon: "rocket"
---

<CardGroup  cols={2} >

<Card
  title="ClickPesa Checkout"
  icon="cart-shopping"
  href="/checkout/checkout-overview"
>
A ready-to-use payment solution supporting multiple methods with a single integration. Embed it on your site or redirect to ClickPesa Hosted Checkout
</Card>

<Card
title="ClickPesa Dashboard"
 icon="browser"
 href="/dashboard/introduction">
Manage and grow your business using insights and analytics, initiate bulk payouts, generate payment pages and invoices, retrieve API credentials, and more
</Card>

<Card
  title="ClickPesa Payout Widgets"
  icon="browsers"
  href="/payout-widgets/payout-widgets-overview"
>
Ready-to-use UI widgets that let you send funds from your ClickPesa account to any mobile money wallet or bank account in Tanzania—directly from your web application
</Card>

<Card
  title="Payment Pages"
  icon="file-invoice"
  href="/dashboard/collection/payment-page"
>
Create secure payment pages to sell products or collect payment for your services online, without a website or webshop. Send page link to customers using email, SMS or WhatsApp
</Card>

<Card
  title="E-Invoice"
  icon="file-invoice-dollar"
  href="/dashboard/collection/invoice"
>
 Generate professional invoices for your customers and get paid from anywhere
</Card>


<Card
  title="ClickPesa BillPay"
  icon="ballot-check"
  href="/dashboard/collection/bill-pay"
>
  Streamline your billing process by creating unique control numbers for receiving payments via Mobile Money, Simbanking, and Wakalas
</Card>

<Card
  title="ClickPesa LipaNamba"
  icon="store"
  href="/dashboard/collection/lipa-namba"
>
  ClickPesa LipaNamba enables you to easily accept mobile money payments directly at your store by using a TanQR enabled LipaNamba
</Card>

<Card
  title="ClickPesa LipaQR"
  icon="qrcode"
  href="/dashboard/collection/lipa-qr"
>
  ClickPesa LipaQR allows you to accept payments via TanQR, provide your customers with a seamless and contactless payment experience
</Card>


<Card
  title="ClickPesa Payment API"
  icon="brackets-curly"
  href="/payment-api/payment-api-overview"
>
Payment API enables seamless integration with ClickPesa, allowing you to receive instant payments via Mobile Money and Cards
</Card>

<Card
  title="ClickPesa Disbursement API"
  icon="brackets-curly"
  href="/payout-api/payout-api-overview"
>
Simplify your bulk payout processes to Mobile Money and Bank Accounts. Includes beneficiary bank account verification and mobile money number name checks
</Card>


<Card
  title="Plugins, Extensions and SDK"
  icon="puzzle-piece"
  href="/sdk-plugins/sdk-plugin-overview"
>
Easily accept payments in your existing Shopify, Wix, and WooCommerce webshops using our Plugins and Extensions. Additionally, leverage our SDKs for Android, iOS, and Web to enable seamless in-app payments in your native applications
</Card>

</CardGroup>
